---
title:  LicenseKit 0.2 is out
date:   2022-10-27 08:00:00 +0100
tags:   general releases

image:  /assets/blog/image-icon.png
---

LicenseKit 0.2 is out with a bunch of new features, like services for registering license keys from hard-coded licenses, CSV files and external api:s.


## Local licenses

This feature was already in LicenseKit 0.1, but has now been defined in a separate service.

Local license registration services can register license keys by looking for a match in a list of pre-defined licenses. Local licenses are hard-coded into library and app binaries. They can always be validated, even offline, and require new binary versions to add or remove licenses.

You can use the license's allows expiration flag to control whether or not a license should still be considered valid after the expiration date has passed. Companies like Sketch use a model where licenses are always valid in all versions that were released during the license validity period.


## CSV licenses

CSV license registration services can register license keys from csv (comma-separated) files. License files let you handle many licenses in a single file. The files are bundled with the library or app binary, which
means that they can always be validated, even offline. This requires new binary versions to add or remove licenses.

The service can be configured to great extent, to customize how CSV data is parsed. This means that your service can parse different files in different ways, if needed.

Just as with local licenses, you can use the license's allows expiration flag to control whether or not a license should still be considered valid after the expiration date has passed.


## Remote licenses

Remote license registration services can register license keys making requests to remote api:s and services.Remote licenses are loaded from a remote api or web service, then validated locally. This means that remote licenses can currently only be registered when the device is online.

The service can be configured to great extent, to customize url, HTTP method and headers for each license key. This means that your service can request different api:s for different license keys, if needed.


## Download

LicenseKit 0.2 can be fetched from [GitHub]({{site.github_url}}) and licenses purchased from [Gumroad]({{site.gumroad_url}}).