---
title:  LicenseKit 0.4 is out
date:   2022-11-09 08:00:00 +0100
tags:   general releases

image:  /assets/headers/icon.png
---

LicenseKit 0.4 is out, with a bunch of new features, like new tier capabilities, new license errors and a new cached license service.


## Tier capabilities

`LicenseTier` now lets you compare and validate if a tier matches another tier level or meets it as a minimum requirement, for instance:

```swift
let basic = LicenseTier.basic
let silver = LicenseTier.silver
let gold = LicenseTier.gold

try gold.validateMeets(.silver)    // Succeeds
try gold.validateMatches(.silver)  // Throws an error
try basic.validateMeets(.silver)   // Throws an error
```

This makes it a lot easier to implement tier-based functionality.


## License errors

The previously removed `LicenseError.missingLicense` has been re-added, together with a new `.other` type that you can use to throw custom license errors.

The `.other` error can be used to invalidate the new license cache for a custom reason, other than the ones that are automatically handled by the library.


## Cached licenses

There's a new `CachedLicenseService` that can be used to wrap any other license service and add caching capabilities to it.

Cached license services try to get licenses using the wrapped service. If the operation succeeds, the license is cached and returned to the caller. If the operation fails with a `LicenseError`, the cache is cleared and the error thrown to the caller. If the operation fails with another error, the service will return any previously cached license, or throw a `missingLicense` error if none exists.

Cached license services make it possible to keep licenses valid even if license validation fails due to e.g. network errors. You can combine this with strict expiration dates and licenses that don't allow expirations to keep previously validated licenses valid until they expire, even if a user stays offline.


## Download

LicenseKit 0.4 can be fetched from [GitHub]({{site.github_url}}) and licenses purchased from [Gumroad]({{site.gumroad_url}}). The demo apps currently don't use these new capabilities, but the [online documentation]({{site.documentation_url}}) describes how it works.